{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
John Ceballos 										          William Lockett\
Video Games Culture & Industry\
November 1st, 2017\
\
The section I want to talk about refers to pages 92 and 93 of Alexander Galloway\'92s \'93Allegories of control\'94. However, it can be summarized by this sentence.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf0 \
	\'93So, broadly speaking, there is an extramedium shift in which films\
about the absence of control have been replaced by games that fetishize\
control.\'94\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl480\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Through all my time playing video games no game has made me think about control like Grand Theft Auto III, a game Galloway mentions earlier in the article, did. When considering the control given to the player in Grand Theft Auto, I particularly think about the \'93cheat\'94 codes. GTA game developers made it clear that they want the player to have insane amounts of control in any given situation by including cheat codes built into the game. For the computer version of the game, cheats include: \'93GUNSGUNSGUNS\'94 for all guns and full ammo, \'93GESUNDHEIT\'94 for full health and \'93GIVEUSATANK\'94 to spawn a tank. If the cheats 
\i existing
\i0  wasn\'92t enough, the playfulness and ease-of-use of them does the job in showing how the game developers intended for the operator to be able to \'93play god\'94. Although Galloway says that the object of \'93World Game\'94 is \'93to explore for ways to make it possible for anybody and everybody in the human family to enjoy the total earth without any human interfering with any other human and without any human gaining advantage at the expense of another\'94, an objective far different from GTA\'92s, I see many similarities and parallels between the two. In the same sense that Galloway says films took a shift to \'93films of epistemological reversal\'94 in part to do with traumas of capitalism, these two games in question suggest similar roots. In World Game you are able to literally upend capitalism and put in place whatever type of distribution of wealth/governmental system you like, evidently reversing the epistemology of various countries/governments on Earth. GTA III likewise does so by virtually cancelling out capitalism. The game, like real life, has things you can buy (with virtual money) and the coolest things cost the most amount of money. However, with cheats like \'93IFIWEREARICHMAN\'94 that give you 
\i $250,000
\i0  every time you type it in, nothing is ever too expensive. This makes it so that the only cool or rare items become ones that require high amounts of skill or knowledge of the game to get.}